README.md, before:


refine_viaf
===========

refine_viaf implements an OpenRefine reconciliation service that
queries the Virtual International Authority File (VIAF) public
API.

The purpose of this module is to enable anyone to host a service for
their own use.

Features
--------

* Support for the types of names provided by VIAF: Corporate Names,
  Geographic Names, Personal Names, Works, Expressions

* Support for making requests to the VIAF API using a thread pool for
  faster performance.

* Works with Django out of the box, but can be used with any web
  framework with a bit of glue code.

  
Installation
------------

First, activate the virtualenv you're using, if applicable. Then do
ONE of the following:

1. Install manually via pip:

    ```
    pip install refine_viaf
    ```

2. OR add 'refine_viaf' to your project's requirements.txt file and run:

    ```
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. OR clone this git repository and install it by running:

    ```
    python setup.py install
    ```

Django Setup
------------

This package comes with a ready-to-use Django view that you can use in
your new or existing project.

1. Add this app to your Django project's settings.py file, and add
   some configuration options:

    ```
    INSTALLED_APPS = (
        ...
        'refine_viaf',
    )

    # service name to display in OpenRefine
    REFINE_VIAF_SERVICE_NAME = "VIAF (via myserver)"
    # list of preferred sources to use for displaying a name
    REFINE_VIAF_PREFERRED_SOURCES = ["LC"]
    # enable threading
    REFINE_VIAF_THREADING = True
    # number of threads to use: keep in mind VIAF enforces a limit of
    # 6 simultaneous requests
    REFINE_VIAF_THREADPOOL_SIZE = 3
    ```
    
2. Add an entry to your urls.py file:

    ```
    url(r'^reconcile/viaf', 'refine_viaf.views.reconcile'),
    ```

3. Your reconciliation service is now ready to use.

Configuring OpenRefine
----------------------

1. In OpenRefine, select "Reconcile" and "Start Reconciling..." in the
   pull-down menu beside a column whose values you want to reconcile.

2. Click "Add Standard Service..."

3. Type in http://localhost:8000/reconcile/viaf

Other Web Frameworks
--------------------

The reconcile_viaf module is web agnostic: with a bit of glue code, it
can be used with any web framework. See the reconcile_viaf.views
module for how it works with Django, and copy and adapt the code to
your purposes.

There is a lot of debugging output you can direct to a file or stdout
by editing your logging confirguation settings.py file:

```
LOGGING = {
    'version': 1,
    'disable_existing_loggers': True,
    'formatters': {
        'verbose': {
            'format': '%(levelname)s %(asctime)s %(module)s %(process)d %(thread)d %(message)s'
        },
        'simple': {
            'format': '%(levelname)s %(message)s'
        },
    },
    'handlers': {
        'console': {
            'level': 'DEBUG',
            'class': 'logging.StreamHandler',
            'formatter': 'verbose'
        },
    },
    'loggers': {
        'refine_viaf': {
            'handlers': ['console'],
            'level': 'DEBUG',
        }
    }
}
```

Resources
---------

Specification for the Reconciliation Service API:

https://github.com/OpenRefine/OpenRefine/wiki/Reconciliation-Service-Api

This code drew inspiration from these other projects:

* https://github.com/rdmpage/phyloinformatics
* https://github.com/mikejs/reconcile-demo/

License
-------

This code is distributed under a BSD license. See the file LICENSE for
details.

Commit message:

add support for different sources, using URL path

README.md, after:


refine_viaf
===========

refine_viaf implements an OpenRefine reconciliation service that
queries the Virtual International Authority File (VIAF) public
API.

The purpose of this module is to enable anyone to host a service for
their own use.

Features
--------

* Support for the types of names provided by VIAF: Corporate Names,
  Geographic Names, Personal Names, Works, Expressions

* Support for making requests to the VIAF API using a thread pool for
  faster performance.

* Works with Django out of the box, but can be used with any web
  framework with a bit of glue code.

  
Installation
------------

First, activate the virtualenv you're using, if applicable. Then do
ONE of the following:

1. Install manually via pip:

    ```
    pip install refine_viaf
    ```

2. OR add 'refine_viaf' to your project's requirements.txt file and run:

    ```
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. OR clone this git repository and install it by running:

    ```
    python setup.py install
    ```

Django Setup
------------

This package comes with a ready-to-use Django view that you can use in
your new or existing project.

1. Add this app to your Django project's settings.py file, and add
   some configuration options:

    ```
    INSTALLED_APPS = (
        ...
        'refine_viaf',
    )

    # service name to display in OpenRefine
    REFINE_VIAF_SERVICE_NAME = "VIAF (via myserver)"
    # list of preferred sources to use for displaying a name
    REFINE_VIAF_PREFERRED_SOURCES = ["LC"]
    # enable threading
    REFINE_VIAF_THREADING = True
    # number of threads to use: keep in mind VIAF enforces a limit of
    # 6 simultaneous requests
    REFINE_VIAF_THREADPOOL_SIZE = 3
    ```
    
2. Add these entries to your urls.py file:

    ```
    url(r'^reconcile/viaf/(?P<preferred_sources>[\w,]+)', 'refine_viaf.views.reconcile'),
    url(r'^reconcile/viaf', 'refine_viaf.views.reconcile'),
    ```

3. Your reconciliation service is now ready to use.

Configuring OpenRefine
----------------------

1. In OpenRefine, select "Reconcile" and "Start Reconciling..." in the
   pull-down menu beside a column whose values you want to reconcile.

2. Click "Add Standard Service..."

3. To reconcile against names from the preferred source you specified
   in your config (see above), type in:

    ```
    http://localhost:8000/reconcile/viaf
    ```

    To reconcile against a specific source, append it VIAF code to the
    end of the URL path. For example, to use names from the
    Bibliotheque Nationale de France, type in:
    
    ```
    http://localhost:8000/reconcile/viaf/BNF
    ```


Other Web Frameworks
--------------------

The reconcile_viaf module is web agnostic: with a bit of glue code, it
can be used with any web framework. See the reconcile_viaf.views
module for how it works with Django, and copy and adapt the code to
your purposes.

There is a lot of debugging output you can direct to a file or stdout
by editing your logging confirguation settings.py file:

```
LOGGING = {
    'version': 1,
    'disable_existing_loggers': True,
    'formatters': {
        'verbose': {
            'format': '%(levelname)s %(asctime)s %(module)s %(process)d %(thread)d %(message)s'
        },
        'simple': {
            'format': '%(levelname)s %(message)s'
        },
    },
    'handlers': {
        'console': {
            'level': 'DEBUG',
            'class': 'logging.StreamHandler',
            'formatter': 'verbose'
        },
    },
    'loggers': {
        'refine_viaf': {
            'handlers': ['console'],
            'level': 'DEBUG',
        }
    }
}
```

Resources
---------

Specification for the Reconciliation Service API:

https://github.com/OpenRefine/OpenRefine/wiki/Reconciliation-Service-Api

This code drew inspiration from these other projects:

* https://github.com/rdmpage/phyloinformatics
* https://github.com/mikejs/reconcile-demo/

License
-------

This code is distributed under a BSD license. See the file LICENSE for
details.
